hey it's your friend mel and welcome to the mel robbins podcast so just this morning literally a couple hours ago before i walked into the studio sat down in this chair and am talking to you now i get this text from 1 of my close college friends and it said mel i really need some help do you have 5 minutes and she was texting me because she was looking for recommendations on what to do because her daughter's anxiety it is through the roof and you know what i'm not surprised because i'm seeing
so many people in my life i'm seeing so many emails coming into the inbox at mel robins dot com comments dms about this exact same topic and the thing that was kind of crazy about today is that she texts me this question about anxiety looking for resources where do i start how do i help this person i care about and do you know what you and i are talking about literally in a matter of a minute we are sitting down with 1 of the world's leading anxiety experts from harvard university he's the founder of the center for anxiety i mean what are the odds don't you just love it when life confirms the very thing you're about to do it's like a little sign okay you're on the right track just keep going and as somebody who struggled with anxiety for decades and who has had kids who have struggled with anxiety here's what i know it can be
so scary when it's happening to you or to somebody that you love but i also want you to know something you have within you the capacity to face whatever is scaring you and this conversation needs to happen right now and i'm so glad that you are here for it because doctor david ross marin is about to flip everything that you and i know on its head about anxiety this is going to be a resource a place for you to start if you or somebody that you love is struggling with this anxiety and by the end of this episode you're going to know exactly what anxiety is and what it isn't you're gonna understand the things that you're probably doing that are making it worse for you or the person that you care about you're gonna have a whole new way to look at this and a 4 step approach that's gonna work and this is exactly what you need to help somebody who's struggling with anxiety and the good news is doctor ross maron says if you feel trapped by anxiety or you've been trying to outrun it or out drink it or out sleep it or whatever what he's about to share with you will set you free
hey it's your friend mel and welcome to the mel robbins podcast i am so thrilled that you're here i am excited for today's conversation i love talking and learning about ways that you can understand anxiety and help somebody who is kind of struggling with it right now and that's what we're gonna do it is always such an honor to spend time with you and to be together and i wanna take a minute and acknowledge that if you're a new listener welcome welcome to the mel robbins podcast family i'm so thrilled that you hit play and that you made time to listen to this particular episode because i know that you don't have a lot of time i know you value your time and i know that you're listening because either you struggle with anxiety or you're feeling a little bit more anxious than normal or you know somebody who does and you're looking for resources that are gonna help you get control of your anxiety or support someone else and i'm gonna tell you something you're gonna wanna share this with everybody that you care about because this is a lifesaving and a priceless resource with 1 of the most respected and renowned experts on the planet practicing medicine today working with thousands of patients around the world who are struggling with anxiety and if you're here listening to this right
now because somebody shared this with you i wanna tell you that's amazing because it tells me that you have people in your life who care about you and this episode is gonna remind you no matter what you're facing no matter how you're feeling no matter how much your thoughts are spiraling or you're kinda getting into that grip where you're just so worried that bad things are gonna happen at work or in your relationship or to somebody you care about i want you to know you're not alone and you're definitely not powerless and this doesn't have to be your life and it's not gonna last there are things you can do and you're about to learn from the world's leading expert over at harvard what you can do about anxiety this is your resource this is your starting point and i want you to know i know exactly what you're feeling because i did struggle with anxiety for decades and i spent years running away from it when things got too difficult to bear you know what i'd do i'd try to wash those anxious feelings away with a drink or i'd lie in bed and just pull the covers over my head and wish that things would go away if i just stayed in bed or my favorite thing to do oh just stay busy stay
so busy you don't have time to think about anything is this sounding familiar i'm sure it is because we all try to outrun the bad feelings we all don't wanna face the thing that we're scared to face and see that's the thing about anxiety it doesn't feel good does it and it also doesn't feel good to watch somebody that you care about struggle with it whatever it is that you are trying to do to forget the feeling or to get rid of it or deny that it's even there i mean why wouldn't you who would blame you if you did want to get rid of your anxiety i mean i don't blame you but what if there's another way what if there's an entirely different way to think about the topic of anxiety an entirely different way to respond when you start to feel a little anxious what if there's a different way to show up for the people in your life when they start feeling anxious what if instead of running away you actually learned how to run toward it i mean what does that even mean well our expert today is gonna tell you exactly what it means doctor david rosmarin is 1 of the world's leading experts on anxiety he's the founder of the center for anxiety which offers therapy across the united states and is focused on not just living with but thriving with anxiety and when i heard that i was like okay driving i'm a little skeptical well i think doctor ross maron is going to suspend all disbelief and set us free he's an associate professor of psychology at harvard medical school and the director of the spirituality and mental health program at mclean hospital which is 1 of the top ranked psychiatric hospitals on the planet he is also the author of thriving with anxiety 9 tools to make your anxiety work for you and he'll be the first to tell you he deals with anxiety too and after 15 years as a leader in this field he has learned something that you will probably find kind of surprising embracing that dreaded anxiety it's actually good for you it can actually enrich your life make you happier more confident more resilient person
now that may sound like a very tall order especially if you can't sleep because your anxiety is so bad or you don't know what it feels like to not have racing thoughts but there is a different way to live so if you and i are gonna trust anyone how about we promise each other that we're not gonna trust the negative thoughts right now we're gonna trust doctor ross maron because he says he can show you anxiety is not the curse you think it is and he's actually going to teach you today how you can start seeing it as a blessing you can embrace now there's a word i never thought i'd use before today's conversation
so let's just jump in doctor david ross maron i am so excited that you're here
i am even more excited
well 1 of the reasons why i'm excited is because i am asked the question over and over and over again for some reason right now this is 1 of the biggest things i've been asked which is i either have somebody that i love that's struggling with anxiety or i am suddenly very anxious where do i even start and i feel like this conversation and the honor of being able to sit down with you and learn from you in the way that you are counseling and helping and healing people around the world with your work who are struggling with anxiety i just feel like this is gonna be the biggest gift and
so i would love for you to tell the person listening who has made the time to learn from you today what could change about their life or the person's life that they're gonna share this with if they take everything to heart that you're about to share with us based on all of your experience and they use it in their life
there are 2 things k the most fundamental is to stop judging yourself for feeling anxious to stop feeling anxious about the fact that you have anxiety in your life because everyone does it's a normal human emotion in fact if you don't have anxiety something's probably wrong that's number 1 and number 2 once you accept that it's part of your life you can use it as an ally instead of an enemy
that's a pretty tall promise the ally versus an enemy because i think anybody who is struggling with anxiety or watching somebody struggle with it it does seem like an enemy
it sure does
and that's why i was really curious because the title of your best selling book is thriving with anxiety because when i hear thriving with anxiety it almost presumes that i gotta keep it and i'm like but doc i don't i wanna thrive without this stuff so what is possible when you say you can make it an ally or you can thrive
i would say it's almost as counterintuitive as let them
what do you mean
well i don't wanna let them i wanna control them i wanna stop them these annoying irritating situations in my life once you accept that you can't that actually becomes a resource for you to become more resilient more connected to people who are worth connecting to worth focusing more on things in your life that you can control and anxiety is the same way it's kind of like let them for your internal world
so meaning that because we don't understand what anxiety actually is and because we're afraid of it actually it reminds me of a passage in your book that i wanna read to you that i found so interesting okay anxiety is nothing to fear in and of itself this is page 35 i'm reading from my office has serviced over 10,000 patients correct and we have never had a patient die from anxiety no 1 has ever been hurt from their anxiety symptoms or quote gone crazy from the acute experience of anxiety even though i'll add that you often feel like you're going crazy sure and you write yes people can develop behavioral problems in the context of anxiety including alcohol or substance misuse self injury and suicidality however if you want your anxiety to decrease the last thing you want is to flood your system with more adrenaline
so reacting with catastrophic or self judgmental thoughts to the fear response only makes it worse and so what i take from just that passage mhmm is that we kinda have anxiety all wrong and because we do we're making it worse
a 100% that's exactly what's happening our society is over medicalizing over pathologizing a normal human emotion now don't get me wrong at a certain point it does become pathological but we are conflating clinical pathological anxiety with normal anxiety that all healthy human beings experience and in making all of that 1 big lump of craziness we have become allergic to the normal side of anxiety and that's creating the anxiety epidemic today wow
so will you unpack that allergic part because you also write about that in your book that anxiety is almost like an allergy so you just said something that i think needs to be said even louder which is there's a massive difference between the kind of chronic crushing anxiety that becomes a massive debilitating problem in somebody's life and the very normal anxiety that absolutely every human being is going to feel and if you understand it it doesn't have to get worse it could be something that can actually be an ally that you're not afraid of what do you mean when you said allergy though i did this for years myself i would show up to work have clammy hands have a little bit of an upset stomach my breathing would be a little bit labored because it's a stressful day and i would say david what's wrong with you until it was really during the covid pandemic that it hit me i'm like that's not true like we're going through a hard time we're gonna feel somewhat anxious in fact if i didn't feel anxious then something would be wrong and then i realized we need to bifurcate between normal anxiety which is actually potentially a very great resource to thrive in your life and then clinical anxiety which does need professional treatment whether it's medication or psychotherapy or something more sophisticated and targeted but we are getting it wrong and it's having disastrous consequences especially for kids mhmm how does being nervous or feeling on edge how is that an example of thriving when you're facing something challenging well it does depend what you do with it k if we take those nerves those regular healthy anxiety feelings sensations thoughts that are going through and we actually get to the bottom of it we probe we think about what's making us anxious we can become more self aware right yeah if we share it with someone else we can broaden and deepen our connections with other people and become more intimately related to them yeah and if we embrace it well we can actually build our emotional fortitude to be able to face adversity and we can also even use it to let go and i think that's the process that we have to start using with normal healthy aspects of anxiety as opposed to get rid of it and our immediate knee jerk reaction is get rid of these feelings something is wrong with me i shouldn't be feeling this way and immediately your adrenaline is gonna spike cause you're interpreting this the lower levels of anxiety as a problem
so that's literally gonna create a physiological cascade and it it dumps more adrenaline into your system
it makes so much sense and yet when you're in that spiral or that panic about your job or the interview or whether or not you're gonna meet quota or if the person that you're seeing is falling out of love with you you don't have access to that ability or at least not now that's what you're gonna teach us how to do to catch is this sadness or depression and i guess i would put in that is this normal nerves
or
is this actually something to be worried about as a state it's exactly
the first question to ask
and it's something i've never done is stop myself in those moments where i'm starting to go up in my head and ruminate and panic and think about all the worst things that could happen which only freaks me out more and i've seen my kids do the same thing and then i avoid the thing that i need to do which only makes me feel more doubtful and affirm that i can't handle it and so i could see how the first thing would be woah woah woah woah is this a normal set of nerves based on what's going on and a sign that i'm actually mentally well or is this something way bigger correct could you just explain to the person listening how exactly you found yourself in this work and starting the centers for anxiety like what led you here sure looking back in the last 20 years i would probably if i had to be honest it's gonna be my own anxiety and this has very much been a personal journey for me i was taught in graduate school i was taught in my training to diagnose treat help people to get rid of their clinical anxiety and those tools are still something that i use on a daily basis in in a variety of different you know contexts in my in my work but you know it took going through the pandemic to actually click into this concept that not all forms of anxiety are problematic and bad and we couldn't potentially even use those lower levels of anxiety in a constructive positive healthy way to help us to thrive and to grow in our lives well i mean i'll just admit right away you know having struggled with anxiety for almost 30 years you know i'll take full responsibility for the fact that i was afraid of anxiety i hated it i ran from it i tried to drink it away i tried to outwork it yep and none of it worked and some of the medications worked to mute it and there were life saving ladders to help me climb out of a hole but not understanding what you're talking about already and
so i wanna take a giant highlighter and say there's a huge difference between low level anxiety that is normal and the higher level debilitating anxiety that is the focus of your clinical practice correct we're gonna get to into the tools that you can use for yourself and you can also use with people in your life that are feeling anxious but i should probably just back up and start with some of the basics sure what is your definition of anxiety doctor rosmarin
okay there are cognitive aspects things that are going on in your mind there are physiological or emotional aspects and then there are behavioral aspects usually avoidance but maybe some checking so let's go through them the cognitive aspects worry apprehension you're nervous something's gonna happen focusing on the negative thoughts spinning in your head if i go to this event somebody will judge me people won't you know i will have a panic attack i'm not gonna feel good i'm not gonna be able to manage it
if i don't do well in this sales meeting i'm gonna get fired sure yeah if if i if i don't wear the right thing on this date they're not gonna like me
at best maybe even worse never have another date again right this is my only opportunity i'll no longer be able to provide
best the thoughts are way worse i'm never gonna find anyone i'm gonna always be the single for blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
okay gotcha sure sure and then there's the physiological so that's something you know the sweaty palms the upset stomach labored breathing and that's really adrenaline which is going through 1 system and it creates those the cotton mouth it creates these these symptoms that people have and the feeling associated with that foreboding you know those kinds of emotions that that go along with it that's the constellation
that's the constellation why does this happen so why does this happen before a test why does this happen before a date why does this happen if you have a stressful day at work why does this happen if you have to see your in laws and you don't particularly enjoy them
sure why do babies right when they're born let out this massive scream
is it because they're getting air in their lungs for the first time yeah
and it's kinda new and scary and like they've been in this comfortable little bubble for however many months uh-huh and they're in this all of a sudden this different environment and there's lights and there's people and there's breathing like you mentioned and there's a digestion change and heart changes and all sorts of stuff all at once and a healthy child will go ah and freak out and if they don't freak out what do we say uh-oh exactly you call in a neurologist those kids usually don't survive
so what's happening in my body if i'm going into work on a stressful day and i feel anxious like how is that the same as a baby crying
you're a healthy person on a stressful day at work if you're not having a little bit of your hands aren't a little bit clammy and you're not feeling a little bit jazzed up like you don't recognize that there's a task for you to do there's something important you're maybe disconnected from the meaning of your work you might be disconnected from the relationship you have with your peers that doesn't sound like a good work colleague having a little bit of apprehension and anxiety and nervousness walking into those situations shows that you care
that's a beautiful reframe and i think for those of us that are feeling it or we see this present in our children or our partner or a colleague what is the thing you could say in that moment because i think it's those micro moments that we really screw up totally and so what do you do in that moment
i love your specific example of parents and children little jimmy or jenny comes home they feel a little bit anxious and the parent themselves is a little anxious themselves and they are freaked out about the fact that their kid is feeling anxious so what do they do try to put out the fire they try to calm them down they try to say everything's gonna be okay they give them reassurance so you don't have to go to school don't worry you don't have to go to that event we accommodate them as opposed to oh you're feeling anxious that sounds interesting tell me more with no judgment and just to explore it and actually create a more deep connection between parent and child ask questions what is little jimmy or jenny afraid of and why is it embarrassment are they afraid of messing up and being over overly responsible are they afraid of the physical sensations do they feel like a failure are they afraid of losing friends ask them lots of questions and without trying to change it don't try to change how they're thinking how they're feeling their behavior in any way just be there with them while they feel anxious they just want you to connect with them turn into a point of connection as opposed to a moment of education we are missing this fundamental perspective on anxiety and it's having disastrous consequences for those micro moments we judge others we judge ourselves for feeling anxious and we go down the tubes in a hot second because of it
so even just stopping yourself from joining in and that's terrible and you gotta calm down and i'm gonna call the school and you don't need to do this
definitely don't do
that you're just actually making it worse because why
because you're conveying a message i wouldn't even say it's subliminal or subconscious it's direct you are directly showing your child something is wrong here and they become afraid of their anxiety as a result
so what's the mistake that the person who is listening right now might be making when they're dealing with their own anxiety in life
misinterpreting it as a problem that or a weakness or a disease or that something is wrong with you as opposed to this is a normal human emotion and then once we accept that what do i do with it
so we're gonna go into your 4 step process that you use in your clinical practice can you just tell it to us at a top level
sure the 4 steps are as follows identify share embrace and let go i'll explain each 1 identify means getting to the root what are you truly afraid of instead of putting it out of your mind instead of squelching the symptoms go there think about it get to what's actually bothering you 2 share talk about it with someone else open up about it make it a point of connection as opposed to sitting in in a state of loneliness 3 embrace your favorite do that which makes you feel anxious when you're ready and at a rate that you're comfortable with but that is the path for emotional resilience and finally let go there are certain things we can't control anxiety is always surrounded around control and in a certain point we need to let go to the extent that you can do that you've completed the 4 steps it seems
so simple which is probably why it works so well let's take a kid who has trouble doing a sleepover which is a very normal thing oh even bigger 1 sure a kid who is anxious about throwing up
happens every day
well and my son even to this day at the age of 19 only will allow me to show this is afraid of throwing up even though he has thrown up and knows that he can throw up he still will get anxious about throwing up and it was a huge thing when he was a kid
yep so if he were here i would want to know what's the focus of his apprehension that's a very fancy way of saying what's at the root of his anxiety can we identify what is he really afraid of when you vomit it's unpleasant is it taste is it embarrassing yourself is it some sort of just the gag reflexing you just don't like how it feels but if so i'd wanna know what about it did he watch a video once and there's an association with that video i would have a whole bunch of questions here to ask with no judgment simply to explore what about that situation is
so upsetting for him
you know what i love about this what is that i so screwed this up because i'd be like you're not gonna get sick you're gonna be fine it'll happen there's a nurse at school mhmm get on the bus and what you're doing is you're actually slowing down that micro moment and you're going deeper and saying well what would happen and what is it really and and when you get to that answer let's just say it's that i just hate the taste and i hate the pressure on my face yep and i hate it that it's gonna happen and you're not there or that somebody's
gonna see it that it's gonna happen and you're not there is important what about vomiting without mom is upsetting i'd wanna know that based on what they say i'm gonna probe a little bit further and get like what about that specifically is gonna be upsetting to you
you know i heard our pediatrician share with me that the fear of throwing up is 1 of the biggest fears that kids have behind their parents dying and when you hear kids talk about this in your in your practice like what typically is underneath some of these very common things that cause kids anxiety whether it's sleepovers or it's separation anxiety or it's throwing up
yeah i'll i'll tell you what i often think it is about the throwing up there's an association because like the kid threw up at some point and 1 of the parents cleaned it up and it was not pleasant for anyone oh
so we shamed them
well there's there is a fit of a fear of that i'm not saying you did by the way the therapist in me really wants to probe for your like sort of over responsibility for your kid's anxiety i'm totally sort of dying to do that but but i don't wanna turn this into a therapy session so we'll stay on topic with regards to whatever it is though you wanna probe and really get down to the to sort of the root of it and i think this is something we can do ourselves yes right do i feel i'm gonna feel ashamed if i throw up it's embarrassing someone else is gonna have to clean up and if it's someone else's house and i'm doing a sleepover it's like someone else's mom and dad like ugh that's a valid fear yeah and i also feel like you know i've heard this definition recently around anxiety that made
so much sense to me and i'd love to hear your reaction and then i wanna get into more examples about the things that you're seeing in your practice with your patients to just normalize the types of not only fears and anxious feelings that people have but the way they rationalize this stuff in their head sure and then hold themselves back because of it and it's this that anxiety is really a moment of uncertainty in life yes and you doubt your capacity to handle it that's exactly correct and because we then start worrying about how things are going to be i'm gonna throw up or work's gonna be terrible or i'm gonna get fired or this person's never gonna love me or i'm never gonna meet anybody again or if i park in a parking garage on the top floor then the car is gonna roll off and fall to its face and i'm gonna like that could happen right it could it could could happen probably not but it could happen right yeah those things could happen it's the fact that you doubt your ability to handle it that gets you trapped in your mind going over all of the what ifs well that's where the
next 2 steps are
the embracing second step
the well the second step is sharing k sharing your emotions the core of it with someone else can create connection with someone now you have to share with purpose right and there's not everyone in all circumstances can you share with them if you're sharing with a stressed out loved 1 who's coming back after a really you know nasty business trip or really they're going through a hard time themselves they might not be able to hear it right now but sharing it in a certain context and being clear i need you to validate me i just need you to hear me out i'm feeling anxious i want you to be here and present with me mhmm and then sharing it can create more intimacy and connection between parents and children between certainly between loved ones between friends i've even seen it happen with strangers where people open up to each other like hey i feel that way too like instant connection or on a plane i a friend of ours flew in here a colleague and had horrendous turbulence which by the way if i'm taking what you're teaching us doctor ross marin if you're anxious on a plane that is like riding a bucking bronco yep it's a sign that you're mentally well and that your body's working as it should yeah what's wrong with you if you're not feeling anxious correct and he said the woman
next to him started hyperventilating so he held her hand told her i'm nervous too but we're gonna be okay and look at the attendants they're chatting away we're gonna be okay and so her sharing with him that she felt that way created a complete connection with a stranger
she will never forget him that's true ever
that's true what's the third step after you tell somebody
once we share and we're connected to people embrace the anxiety this is where we
how the hell do i do that
face it do something that makes you anxious
i don't want to
i know but you also don't wanna go to the gym to build your physical muscles but you do that
that's true so why
don't we why doesn't it every school in the united states of america have mental like a mental emotional agility resilience building by doing something that makes you feel a little bit uncomfortable as long as it's safe and it's something that you want to do do it
doctor ross maron i have a lot more questions that i wanna ask you about this but i wanna take a quick pause let's let all of this information settle in and while you listen to a word from our sponsors share this with somebody that you love i mean this is world class medical research backed advice everybody in your life deals with anxiety and everybody deserves to know how they can thrive when those moments hit so don't go anywhere because doctor ross maron and i are gonna be waiting for you after a short break so stay with me welcome back it's your buddy mel robbins and today you and i are learning from world renowned expert on anxiety doctor ross marin
so if you're gonna embrace your anxiety and that's the answer which i don't like to hear i'm just gonna say right out like if i if i am a person we all have this person in our life whose identity has become anxiety and it is also the thing that they say to opt out and i have been that person and so if embracing anxiety after you've identified what am i really scared of you share it now we gotta embrace the thing you're actually scared of that root thing right correct how do you do that can you share examples sure there's this brilliant approach called the 5 second rule oh no do not turn my work back on you am i wrong that's what it is i'm getting out of bed even though i feel like hell right
now i'm gonna do this i don't want to you know i've had people with a fear of snakes
like
i literally have a guy on speed dial who i can should i bring him in
no not right now
that's fine you're not right now
so you have to so you so how do you coach somebody through this because you do have a section in your book where you on let's see here i i marked it actually it's page 96 facing up to anxiety
exposure therapy yeah chapter 3
is exposure therapy the only answer
it's not the only answer it's a very very good tool and when you have clinical anxiety it has to be part of the picture if you're not going to face your anxiety eventually it's gonna be hard to get over it but i think it's 1 step i think we do have to identify it we do have to share it
right we do
have to embrace it i think there's something beyond it but let's focus on exposure therapy for now
okay so you're afraid to fly
you're gonna fly at some point when you're ready we're gonna take by the way are you more nervous about short hauls or long hauls me no just let's make it up oh got it probably smaller planes smaller planes great perfect so there's an airline that goes out of boston logan called cape air
okay it's got like 7 seats
i think it's 8 and 1 of them is actually in the cockpit and i've been in it it's a cessna plane it's basically a minivan with wings
doctor russmaren i would i would quit as your patient like do you actually get people to do this
sure i was gonna say it's a lot of fun but not only is it fun for me it's fun for them at a certain point because they are embracing their anxiety and saying i can do this i'm not gonna let it get in my way
what about shyness
great harder to target tends to be longer term tends to be focused also comorbid with depression people get a lot more depressed mhmm because if you're shy you're disconnect more disconnected from others more isolated more alone more sad so often building that person up first is important clinically through more identification and a lot more sharing not just for the therapist but also with other people in their world sometimes posting on social media whatever it is but at a certain point they're gonna have to go to the party and not have a martini why no martini because the martini is an anxiolytic what what that's a big word was that big word for saying it reduces your anxiety temporarily temporarily wake up in the morning with a massive hangover and anxiety is the big symptom that you can and then you're ruminating about all the stuff that you said that you shouldn't have said because you're a little bit tipsy what about for ocd like somebody who's like worried about like cleanliness and germs great
so let's just say these hands have been in many places that i will not tell you about today not today not today don't worry and i do wash my hands before i eat but before washing my hands and before eating you'd be surprised where these go because but part of being an anxiety therapist means you have to do everything that your patients do also
so what do you do with those like really dirty grimy hands
okay so i'm thinking of a specific patient who came in who was terrified of germs and for many years had been avoiding all sorts of situations really wouldn't open car doors certainly wouldn't ride the subway and was at 1 point putting gloves on their hands lots of purell lots of excessive washing had actually had very significant chafing even needed some medical treatments in order to be able to deal with you know abrasions on their hands from all the washing and really we started with touching things that would make them feel uncomfortable started with things in the office it could have been as simple as this desk surface it could have been things that you know in the bathroom would be
next and eventually moving towards the inside of a toilet bowl or things that are way over the top that you wouldn't normally do in order for them to develop the resilience to stand up to their anxiety head on
the toilet oh so how does somebody get through the uncomfortable feelings that they have while they're doing this exposure therapy with you
the first step is always the same which is do you want to do this once somebody wants to face their anxiety and build their resilience by deliberately putting themselves in an anxiety provoking situation like once you catch the bug like once you wanna do it there's nothing that'll stop you
what if when they first start doing it they feel so uncomfortable or the anxiety just spikes and they're like i can't do this i can't do this i can't i can't get on that plane i can't put my hands on the toilet i can't put my hands on the table what do you do
so we prep people beforehand they will think i can't do this i'm not gonna be able to handle this my anxiety is gonna spike i'm gonna get sick all of those thoughts are gonna be rocketing through your head because that's what facing anxiety entails that's part of the process and that is exactly why it's an opportunity to build emotional resilience
how many times doctor rosmarin does it take for somebody to start feeling less anxious when they start forcing themselves to do this thing you know expose themselves to the thing that they're terrified to do
often we see a significant drop in anxiety even after once or twice from doing it but sometimes it does require many many more repetitions in some ways it depends on how long they've been avoiding situations if people have been avoiding germs and microbes and all sorts of things for decades it might take a while for them to get through it but it's kinda like a mortgage like eventually you pay it off
what about a a parent who has a child who is starting to develop a pattern yes of not wanting to either go to school or participate in sports or who won't do sleepovers and it's with a family that's safe it's not some creepy family you don't know and they don't wanna do it because they don't wanna be there
what about then we can't when we push kids to do things that they don't want to do there's a balance and helping scaffold kids that they want to do it selling them on it so to speak onboarding talk about onboarding kids onboarding teens once somebody recognizes this will help build my resilience this will help make me a stronger emotional person then they're like okay i'm in and at a certain point with planes you might be there too like you know what i wanna do this i don't want this to get in my way in any way i wanna be more fearless yeah in my life i want to just like you wanna learn how to pump iron or be able to run a marathon or run at a certain time pace or whatever it is we all have our fitness goals and i think we should also have our emotional goals we don't have that well 1 of the things that i love that you said at the very beginning of our conversation when you made this life altering distinction thank you
now for real sadness is a normal emotion that you're gonna feel and you know it comes and it goes yep depression is a clinical condition that interferes with your life that demands and deserves treatment
correct
anxiety in terms of chronic anxiety or this fear that you have of things that keeps you from living your full life is very different than being nervous or on edge because the stakes are high mhmm or something's uncertain or you really care about doing well like you know i would imagine there's a tremendous amount of anxiety that you would feel before you take the lsat or before you are turning in a college application or
going on a first date going on
a first date and that's again in this range of nervousness and just uncertainty which is a part of life and what you taught us is in those moments we literally do the wrong thing
correct
we either go oh this is a sign something's about to go wrong and it's not it's just a sign that you're about to do something where you doubt your ability for a bit and then as the bystander the friend the boyfriend the girlfriend the husband the wife the parent the grandparent we literally are either like oh you're gonna be fine so we don't acknowledge it right or we join in with the anxiety
oh my god something's wrong
yes yes oh you don't have to go to sleepover oh you don't have to try out for that team right oh you know you know you can take the test again if you screw it up and i can see how powerful it is to catch these moments and reaffirm oh really that that makes sense that you'd be nervous tell me what why exactly are you nervous about this test that's coming up or i can see why you'd be nervous like tell me more about the state you're going on what does that do for a person in the moment
it takes so much of the edge off as opposed to giving me more of a reason to be anxious about my anxiety
mhmm
it normalizes and makes it so much more manageable it's just a different that different framework it's kinda like having glasses that are like a different color it just changes the whole view of everything around you and by the way it's not just the parents and the teachers it actually comes from the medical profession something crazy happened last summer something very unfortunate
what happened
well there was a federally funded panel of physicians in the united states who came up with i think it was in in some ways i think it was well intended and i think it was a good idea to screen all patients at their annual pcp visits primary care physician visits for anxiety now i have no problems with screening people for anxiety but the way it's done well the recommendation was to use the gad 2 which is a 2 item measure it asks how much anxiety have you had in the last 2 weeks and how much worry have you had in the last 2 weeks well who who isn't gonna answer a lot well the cutoff who's gonna say 0 to any of those questions right the cutoff was set at a 0 which means any modicum of anxiety or stress over the last 2 weeks is actually enough to flag a person today in their pcp office for clinical anxiety and treatment what well i mean and is that why we've seen all these reports that anxiety from a clinical standpoint is on the rise or are you saying that this is more that doctors are
now over indexing normal healthy human emotion into a clinical anxiety setting
it's the latter but it's actually both we are definitely overdiagnosing lower levels of human stress and anxiety as a pathology as opposed to something normal
i agree with you
who have you met in the last 2 weeks who have had no anxiety and no worry
honestly no 1 and i think it's written about so much and that's not to downplay the very real rise in of course like sadness and worry and stress that kids feel and teenagers feel and people in their twenties feel but i do think we don't have the language which was why i was so excited about your work because for somebody who had anxiety that did not get addressed this way i was afraid of it
so i drank myself into the ground i tried to work myself through it the second i got chronic anxiety where i would wake up panicking i then get medicated yep and i never addressed the underlying issues and the medication was lifesaving but it also i think kept me trapped in this place where i was afraid to go off it
yeah and it could have been at at a certain point you shouldn't have gone off of it you should have stayed on it and you needed it in order to come
and there are plenty of times like you know i i'm i'm assuming is all anxiety the same
no i'll tell you the way i think about it anxiety occurs on a scale of 0 to 10 but really there's no zeros because no 1 has 0 anxiety and there's no 10 because that would be literally catastrophic so we're left with 1 to 9
k
1 2 3 is low 4 5 6 is medium 7 8 9 is high if you're into 7 or 8 and a 9 you probably need something professional to take it down to a mid range
and how would you as a as a doctor and an anxiety physician therapist how how would you actually categorize a 7 8 or an i
if it's getting in the way of your at that level it's gonna be getting in the way of your life
if you're feeling it's disrupting your sleep you're avoiding doing what you need to do yeah
if you can't sleep because of your anxiety that's a dysfunctional issue that's something that has to be addressed
and now let's go with the kind of 4 5 6
4 5 6 so that now depends some people can function actually reasonably well at a 4 5 and a 6 6 maybe less likely but a 4 and a 5 for sure
what would you be hearing typically from someone in your practice if they were saying i'd say my worry and anxiety is about a 4 5 or 6
it depends on what's going on are they an emergency room doctor are they you know going through med school are they going through a a breakup are they starting a new they have a new baby you know then okay like people have periods of time where they might ramp up and that actually might enhance their performance it might enhance their connection
the important thing there that i wanna make sure that the person listening understands yes is that what you just identified
first
of all it's the step 1 that you taught us of identify what's the root cause mhmm and there's a huge difference in those moments in your life where something is causing you to be on edge and you to be nervous and you to be worried and doubting yourself or scared about what's gonna happen because that to me sounds like there's a situation you know i mentioned at the beginning of this episode that literally 2 hours before you walked in the studio i got a text from a very close friend of mine who said my daughter is unable to sleep has crushing anxiety and then added that there is this massive medical test that she needs to take for med school which to me said oh well there's this thing happening that is high stakes that explains it but because my friend has never dealt with this with any of her kids mhmm and because it's really scary when you see somebody who's normally seems like they have it pulled together truly start to spiral you don't know what to do and what i said to her is well i'm gonna tell you something first of all it seems appropriate that she's nervous because great she has high stakes but i've got the world's leading expert walking in here and this is the name of his book and you should go buy it right
now because i know i screw it up every time i see somebody even when i know it's situational because i get anxious for them and so i think it's important to understand that even in your practice and this is something you can do for yourself and you can do for somebody you care about you identified 1 to 9 how much is this interfering and no matter what they say in terms of the ranking you can also say what's going on in your life
a 100%
and what's the difference between something that is situational versus something that becomes way more chronic
well you know that is important the situational aspect is very important but how you are sort of engaging in your anxiety like i said the 4 5 and 6 are you using are you able to use that level of anxiety in a constructive positive way is it
if i'm sitting there with you probably not like if i come you know what i mean if i'm going to a doctor and i'm like doc i i i like i'm feeling very anxious 4 5 6 like i'm not sleeping very well i don't feel like anybody that even would say a 4 5 or 6 feels like they're thriving or able to kind of use it
i don't know i think a lot of people might be like hey i'm building i'm i'm an entrepreneur yeah they're starting a new business they're having a battle of a time they're feeling stressed out might have gained a couple pounds and they know that they're at a 4 5 and a 6 but they're like but i'm gonna get through this
i can think of periods of my life like that sure so what is a 1 2 or 3
when somebody that you're treating says that so that often we see that as the goal i'm not sure i do i i think that if firstly with medication clinicians often overpromise and they say i'm gonna get your anxiety down to a 1 and it's gonna stay there i'm not sure that's even helpful
i love what you just said what you just said is the goal is not to get to 0
correct well
that if we take as truth which it is that feeling on edge and nervous and doubting yourself normal human emotions the anxiety becomes a real problem from a clinical standpoint when it's interfering with your life and it is robbing you of the possibilities and the full potential that you have because you're now held hostage by the anxiety and you're scared of it well put if the goal is that we can do simple things to identify what's making you anxious to remind you that you have the capacity to face this to have you share and connect with other people and to take small steps and go the goal isn't to go to 0 the goal is just let's just get this to a 3 and there's some simple things i can do doctor osmara let's hit the pause button for just a second let's hear a word from our sponsors and i wanna give the person listening a chance to share this episode with somebody that they really care about because this is a world class resource that you're giving us that will completely change the way that somebody thinks about anxiety and starts to respond to it differently and i love everything that you're sharing
so thank you in advance for sharing this with people that you care about and don't go anywhere because doctor ross maron has so much more to teach you and share with you and inspire you about when we return stay with me welcome back it's your buddy mel robbins and today you and i are getting to spend time with doctor david ross maron his book is thriving with anxiety thank you for sharing this with people that you care about thank you for taking the time to listen to something that will improve your life
so doctor ross maron before we go into how do you actually go from the higher end down to the 1 to threes here i do want to stay on this topic even though it's very self serving because i feel like i screwed this up and it's the sleepover topic you're a parent you have a child they are opting out and you're very worried it's getting into the 4 fives and 6 you're not with them 8 hours a day so you're not a part of what's happening at school what do i do in those moments when i have a child that's really anxious do i force them to go to the sleepover do i what do i do validate validate validate there's a reason why they don't wanna go to the sleepover and even if it doesn't make sense to you it makes sense to their anxiety you have to delve into that anxiety with them and allow them to explore it the more you say oh there's no reason to be upset the more they're just gonna think that their anxiety is a problem and not even they might not even be conscious of what they're afraid of but if you just ask them like why wouldn't you wanna go to sleepover not judging just asking what about if i wake up and i'm scared yeah that would be upsetting what would happen if you were to wake up and then i'd have to wake up missus
so and so and they'd have to come get you and it'd be really embarrassing
i understand then why you wouldn't wanna have a sleepover
i just like my bed i'd rather be in my bed
yeah well that's the comfort thing by the way that the kid just changed the topic now we're talking about comfort as opposed to anxiety so i would probably double back and say like well what about that missus so and so would have to you know draw call you up and you'd have to pick me up and it'd be a whole thing what about it would people be talking about it the next day mhmm would it be a social thing would it be are you more embarrassed about the parents thinking about you about your your friend would you feel worse about yourself and just explore it
there's so much there because now i'm starting to think like gosh they probably also feel self conscious like they can't do something that their friends can do and that makes them seem like more and then you might find out that their friends actually aren't that nice i can see how there's a lot there
and it's so individual to that person wow but when we unpack it we actually learn who the kid is if you snuff out the anxiety you'll never know what's really going on
is there a difference between the way that women and men or boys and girls tend to exhibit symptoms of anxiety
so great question women have about twice as much clinical anxiety as men why they are tend to be a lot harder on themselves and judge themselves for being anxious and don't really allow themselves to experience those feelings if a guy's feeling anxious like well something's wrong and like there must be a reason yeah you know you know women are more like something's wrong with me
it's so true well you know there's interesting research feedback it does there's interesting research about like if a if a guy loses a job when he gets his next job there's no difference in the salary he makes when a woman loses her job she turns it back on her becomes anxious and starts doubting herself and her capability of handling this and tends to take literally a 25% salary cut yeah and so this has very very real implications are there topics that you find that boys and men are more anxious about than women no i think men will often snuff out the anxiety a little bit more and be a little more disconnected from it like we see higher instances of substance and alcohol abuse and that's usually you know often happens when people are feeling anxious and don't wanna talk about it don't wanna think about it how do you turn anxiety though into an ally instead of an enemy great
so when
you're afraid of it
oh it is terrifying but therein lies the opportunity that's what creates the opportunity for self discovery the reason you're freaking out about it is because it matters so identify what's at the root of it share it with someone else embrace it when you're ready and then the next step is letting go which is the hardest 1 but that's that's where that's where it's all what it's really all about i think all human beings would benefit from acknowledging the limits of what we can control mhmm and leaning into that and letting go there's a difference between losing control where it's taken away from us involuntarily mhmm versus giving up control like you do on a roller coaster true that latter experience when we don't have control over situations
so if we're like okay it ain't my wheel right then the anxiety can actually be an uplifting exhilarating experience where we lean into the fact that we aren't in control and that's okay
and so you are letting go of the need for proof and just choosing to believe
correct correct
and what i think you're believing especially in those moments of anxiety is that you're gonna be okay and that you have the capability and the capacity to handle this and to face whatever comes
even though it's overwhelming and beyond you yes that somehow something in your humanity will be able to rise to the challenge who knows how who knows when who knows where methods are unclear the path is opaque but i'm gonna continue to trot along and trot along it with some sort of level of
i mean at at its deepest level it's trusting in life and you know actually it reminds me of something that you wrote in your book that i absolutely loved which is when anxiety strikes we tend to get annoyed why doesn't the anxiety beast get out of our way we look for distractions or a way out of the quandary is there a drink i can have or a recreational drug i can take to make it all go away at least for the moment can i busy myself with work or by obsessively reading and posting on social media these strategies tend to just make anxiety worse however if we can harness the power of anxiety we can thrive in ways we never thought were possible we should not sidestep anxiety or back up and deny that it is there but rather stop and evaluate the situation what is our anxiety trying to tell us the answer is that we need to dig deep down into ourselves although doing
so makes us uncomfortable mhmm we need to experience anxiety in order to transcend it and although it may not seem to be the case at first glance what lies inside what our anxiety is pointing us toward is a set of precious gifts in this case the gold isn't material wealth but a deepened sense of connection with ourselves with others and with our spirituality ironically and paradoxically we can thrive with anxiety you're right thanks what if you read the headlines about the melting polar ice cap and you look at the fact that there's this once in 200 year storm that happened in florida you know a while ago and you're worried about climate change yeah and that there won't be a planet here for future generations and that starts to cause you a lot of anxiety right or california wildfires yeah california wildfires like how what do you do how do you use this method with that this is where the let go comes in there is only
so much that human beings can control in this world
i don't want that answer
you know you're the 1 who says it with love then i know
but i don't but i'm i'm playing the role of somebody who is in an anxious state and who you know because when you're you're kinda cynical when you're anxious because you felt this way and you're like doc you don't have any idea i know you've treated tens of thousand people and you've got a degree and you're an expert in this and you studied it but you don't know what it's like like i i just can't get out of my head
i can't face my own anxiety like you wouldn't believe and letting go the truth is coming from a spiritual and religious tradition like i think i have an advantage here because this is the kind of message that i've been you know brought up with and that i you know attend sermons about and human beings are not the architects of all of world events that's just not the way it goes we're not in charge of the weather we're not in charge of certain things but we're in charge of a lot and by refocusing on that which is within our purview and is within our control that's using anxiety in a constructive positive way because that will motivate me to get up in the morning do what i gotta do push ahead face that adversity have a dream and move towards it as opposed to trying to grasp control over stuff that i don't i i mean it makes a lot of sense and you know you're you're the expert and i'm sure you'll tell us anytime you focus on or grip or worry about things that you can't control you just create more anxiety for yourself i mean i don't think you need to be an expert to to know that 1
so you have so many tools in your book thriving with anxiety what are some tools that the person who's listening can put to work like right now so that anxiety enriches their relationship with themselves because that's a that's a really beautiful thing that is possible to you that this could actually create a deeper connection that you have with yourself
for sure i mean off the cuff you know when you feel anxious don't squelch it don't get rid of the symptoms don't try to avoid it in your mind actually take the time to do a mental inventory k that could start with a brain dump as my wife likes to call it just dump all the thoughts out you know unravel the yarn you know un you know take whatever's in your pockets and put it on the table and then just let it sit there that could take 10 15 minutes
k so you just dump everything in your brain on a piece of paper just everything that's in there
yep and then what and then pick out the anxiety saplings k
what does that mean
there's gonna be 1 or 2 trees so to speak that are you know that have roots and they really go down to a certain level sometimes really deep identify them from the other stuff often people come in and they ask them what are you anxious about and alright 30 minutes later it's like okay i think there are 2 or 3 main themes here okay you know you can even put it into chat gpt and say like what are my 2 main themes
you mean like do your brain dump
mhmm
in chat gtp and then go tell me what the 2 biggest things that i'm anxious about
it's a language processor right so you can theoretically just do that
okay you're gonna put yourself out of a job okay keep going no never because we all need you
i don't think so
i don't know why about that done that you've picked out kind of the 2 big themes
yeah
what do you do dig identify dig share
well no harm we're not we're
not even interested
in it there oh my god identifying
okay we're just identifying
just go dig what what's at the root of it what are you really afraid will happen if your car was parked on the seventh thing and it starts to roll whatever it is you know your exam is over for
the like top 5 things that when you do that exercise with your patients come up over and over and over again
it's usually 1 thing
what is it
being alone people are afraid of being alone being abandoned wow i know when i've hit that when i'm asking in a patient live firstly when they start to tear up and i can feel the emotion in the moment then i know i'm getting something and often when they hit the alone elevator like when we hit that floor on the elevator then then we're getting somewhere
well it makes sense you know there's a doctor who's had a big impact i mean doctor russell kennedy who talks about how he believes that all yeah anxiety separation anxiety
very similar
and it's separation from self mostly and your faith in yourself and your belief in yourself and from a spiritual standpoint if you're a very spiritual person you also separate from the source of your belief and power because you go up in your head and so what's interesting about that is is i think you're right if i tick through everything that i've ever been anxious about or my kids have ever struggled with it does come down to i'm gonna be alone it's true
that's it that's the core usually
it's true so how do you let that fear go
you don't you embrace it and use it to connect other people find ways to build your resilience with it and then with regards to letting go i think that's letting go control that you can actually control it k but you don't you don't let go of that fear it's gonna be there and that's okay
so let's say the person listening or she is at a 7 8 or 9 on that scale
yeah
what is the good news that you tell that person when they walk in and begin their practice with you
yeah well first again if they're at a 7 8 or 9 that's probably interfering with their lives in a clinical way in which case you're probably looking at a professional process
mhmm
now this whether it's the book or whether it's you know a a workshop or whatever it is people could probably benefit from that as well right but i wouldn't want someone who's coming in with a 7 8 or 9 where it's actually clinical it's interfering with their lives they just use a self help approach got it i'd probably want them to get some sort of therapy and or meds
what would you say to the person who's listening that they've been hanging on every word they've been either thinking about their own anxiety or somebody that they care about who's really you know struggling with it but there's that little bit of skepticism you know you know that the urge to just kinda react like well i'm never like this isn't i don't know if this is gonna work for me which is also more of your anxiety right yeah because now you're up in your head debating and having a negative thought about the thing the very thing that could save you yeah
so what would you say to that person that just feels sort of discouraged or skeptical
i don't blame you you've been taught since birth that something's wrong with you if you're anxious you've been taught by your parents you've been taught that by your teachers you've been taught that by society you've seen and you've seen medication advert advertisements on television for years and years and years that message was pounded into you that something is clinically emotionally maybe even morally wrong with you if this is a failing of your life if you feel anxious so yeah i don't blame you for you know having heard this for the first time for you know barely an hour that it's not penetrating yeah i don't blame you 1 bit wow i mean you just did exactly what you told us to do i guess
so you validated oh i guess so you did
it just popped out
of me how has everything that you just shared with us helped you with your anxiety
oh my god so many ways you know i didn't always talk about it when i got my job at harvard medical school it's not the kind of thing that you speak about right like you're a professor and you stand up and you have your slides and you have your you know you have your figures and your facts and your data and you don't have your personal experience like no that would be like beneath you know the dignity of someone within the academy and then like i said over over covid it really changed for me because aside from the fact that i was just dealing with my own anxiety i actually saw in my data that the patients who are coming to our programs who had clinical anxiety and got treatment before march 2020 did better throughout the rest of the pandemic they did not have an increase a substantial increase in in anxiety and then i was like hold on i'm going about this wrong i'm treating all anxiety like it's clinical that's not true david you have anxiety too embrace it i started to talk to my wife about it have some real conversations about my fear of failure i really like like i've known this about you forever you've just been hiding it together and you're annoying and you take it out on the rest of us she did something like well she actually didn't say that she didn't even say i told you
so she didn't have to
what did she say
yeah she did say i know but she held me through it and it made us closer it created more emotional depth in our connection
you know what's interesting about your approach is that so many people that talk about anxiety and i know i'm certainly in this camp because i've always focused on alright let's get rid of this alright let's organize our entire lives so we don't feel this thing so let's you know make sure we wake up and we do this and all those things are very important because i certainly have identified the conditions or triggers or situations that can make me feel nervous on edge or anxious in an unnecessary way like too much drinking which then makes you wake up with anxiety and why would you do that to yourself or looking at your phone first thing which of course spikes your feelings of inferiority and puts you up in your head
so why would you do that thing and so i think though in listening to you there's a huge shift in the way that you've made me think about this because you basically are saying to all of this and you're probably gonna be like yeah you're right dummy that's exactly what i said at the very beginning but i think you need to hear it over and over to really get what you're saying and i finally do which is look 0 to 9 just like you're always gonna have sadness in your life but it doesn't always turn into depression mhmm you're always gonna have on edginess and nervousness and uncertainty and doubt which is the low grade anxiety or on the point scale it's 1 to 3 and opening your arms to it rather than bracing for battle knowing that it's coming and knowing that in those moments when it rises up in you or somebody else instead of invalidating it just go oh interesting i'm nervous i love what you said about bracing for battle that's exactly what we do yeah we think of it as the enemy right away and it's not in fact it's going to be there and
so learning to and i'm 1 of the big takeaways that i have from our conversation is i'm not gonna call it anxiety
what are you gonna call it
what's the language you're gonna it is i'm gonna i'm gonna call it nerves or excitement or i'm gonna call it i'm feeling a little unsettled or feeling a little uncertain or i'm a little worried that you know i'm not gonna do well on this test or i'm a little upset about something
oh like a save your anxiety
yeah like i'm getting save
the worry
like i noticed i'm i'm like getting ready to do something or i noticed i really care about this like there's different ways i noticed i'm a little worried about going to the sleep that sounds very different than i'm very anxious about which to your original point calling something that's vastly different the exact same thing that's 1 thing that i know i'm gonna do in my life and with people that i care about and i'm also going to point out the thing that you're actually worried about it would make sense that you feel that way let's talk more about it yeah life changing thanks doctor ross maron what are your parting words don't judge yourself for feeling anxious use it it's a human emotion like any other human emotion it can be used constructively in your life wow thank you thank you thank you and i also wanna thank you thank you for taking the time to listen to something that there's no doubt in my mind it's gonna change your life because when you can flip the way that you think about anxiety on its head it no longer controls you and for far too long i allowed anxiety to control me i made it worse than my kids because i didn't have this 4 part framework that you just learned today and don't you deserve to have a life where you're not held hostage by your anxiety of course you do and
so do the people that you love and so i just wanna thank you for taking the time and i also wanna be sure to tell you in case nobody else does today that i love you and i believe in you and i believe in your ability to create a better life and there's no doubt that listening to this and then taking the time to share it with somebody that you care about it's not only gonna make your life better it's gonna make their life better too alrighty i'll be waiting for you in the very next episode i'll be there to welcome you in the moment you play i'll see you there no i'm from michigan no kidding yeah it's very good and then came east for college in law school met my husband out here parents are still pissed
my throat is dry go figure and then let them so exciting
it's such an honor to be here like i said to meet you is super exciting a little anxiety provoking but in a good way
what what what like a 2 like a 2
3 and a half
okay we'll take it you did great you didn't even show it oh and 1 more thing and no this is not a blooper this is the legal language you know what the lawyers write and what i need to read to you this podcast is presented solely for educational and entertainment purposes i'm just your friend i am not a licensed therapist and this podcast is not intended as a substitute for the advice of a physician professional coach psychotherapist or other qualified professional got it good i'll see you in the
next episode stitcher